# Decision Trees

http://ciml.info/dl/v0_99/ciml-v0_99-ch01.pdf

**At a basic level, machine learning is about predicting the future based on the past.**

In general, this means making informed guesses about some unobserved property of some object, based on observed properties of that object.

## What does it mean to learn?

Generalization 泛化

This general set up of predicting the future based on the past is at the core of most machine learning.

The objects that our algorithm will make predictions about are examples.

To make this concrete, Figure 1.1 shows the general framework of induction.

We are given training data on which our algorithm is expected to learn. 

Based on this training data, our learning algorithm induces a function f that will map a new example to a corresponding prediction.

We want our algorithm to be able to make lots of predictions, so we refer to the collection of examples on which we will evaluate our algorithm as the test set.

The test set is a closely guarded secret: it is the final exam on which our learning algorithm is being tested. If our algorithm gets to peek at it ahead of time, it’s going to cheat and do better than it should.

The goal of inductive machine learning is to take some training data and use it to induce a function f.

This function f will be evaluated on the test data.

The machine learning algorithm has succeeded if its performance on the test data is high.

## Some Canonical Learning Problems

There are a large number of typical inductive learning problems.

The primary difference between them is in what type of thing they’re trying to predict.

Regression: trying to predict a real value.

Binary Classification: trying to predict a simple yes/no response.

Multiclass Classification: trying to put an example into one of a number of classes.

Ranking: trying to put a set of objects in order of relevance.

The reason that it is convenient to break machine learning problems down by the type of object that they’re trying to predict has to do with measuring error.

根据预测对象的类型去分类机器学习算法的原因是：评估训练效果是否好的方式不同

The different types of learning problems differ in how they define goodness.

## The Decision Tree Model of Learning

The decision tree is a classic and natural model of learning.

It is closely related to the fundamental computer science notion of “divide and conquer.” Although decision trees can be applied to many learning problems, we will begin with the simplest case: binary classification.

The goal in learning is to figure out what questions to ask, in what order to ask them, and what answer to predict once you have asked enough questions.

The decision tree is so-called because we can write our set of questions and guesses in a tree format, such as that in Figure 1.2.


