# Project Summaries

Summaries and links for the most relevant projects in the space of Python installation and packaging.

## PyPA Projects

### distutils

The original Python packaging system, added to the standard library in Python 2.0 and removed in 3.12.

Due to the challenges of maintaining a packaging system where feature updates are tightly coupled to language runtime updates, direct usage of distutils has been actively discouraged, with Setuptools being the preferred replacement.

Setuptools not only provides features that plain distutils doesn’t offer (such as dependency declarations and entry point declarations), it also provides a consistent build interface and feature set across all supported Python versions.

Consequently, distutils was deprecated in Python 3.10 by PEP 632 and has been removed from the standard library in Python 3.12.

Setuptools bundles the standalone copy of distutils, and it is injected even on Python < 3.12 if you import setuptools first or use pip.

### pip

The most popular tool for installing Python packages, and the one included with modern versions of Python.

It provides the essential core features for finding, downloading, and installing packages from PyPI and other Python package indexes, and can be incorporated into a wide range of development workflows via its command-line interface (CLI).

### build

build is a PEP 517 compatible Python package builder. It provides a CLI to build packages, as well as a Python API.

### Setuptools

Setuptools (which includes easy_install) is a collection of enhancements to the Python distutils that allow you to more easily build and distribute Python distributions, especially ones that have dependencies on other packages.

## Non-PyPA Projects

### poetry

poetry is a command-line tool to handle dependency installation and isolation as well as building and packaging of Python packages.

It uses pyproject.toml and, instead of depending on the resolver functionality within pip, provides its own dependency resolver.

It attempts to speed users’ experience of installation and dependency resolution by locally caching metadata about dependencies.

